I put the flame on the bowl and drew in slowly, to avoid torching the DMT, for as long as I could. I exhaled and took a quick glance at the bong filled with thick DMT smoke. I inhaled sharply and sucked every last bit of the smoke deep into my lungs. I held the smoke in for about 7 seconds before exhaling, and I was already tripping harder than I ever had before. Everything in my vision became so vibrant that it surpassed my understanding of what a color is. I tried to remember, but it was already too distant a memory to recall in my current state of mind.

I think I closed my eyes, but I will never be sure. I felt a voice say, “Come with me”, and I went. I instantly lost connection with everything I had ever experienced since my birth. I could not even think in my own language or remember anything at all about my past. I broke into a state of consciousness without the perceptive lens of being myself, or a human, or even a living organism. I not only felt dissociated from my body, I was separated from my soul. I experienced an eternity in an instant. I had blasted into oblivion, free of any shred of conscious thought. I think I was in ego-death for about ten or fifteen minutes of human time.

Coming back to the concept of having a body, I thought I was lying dead in the street in the presence of my mother and an ambulance crew. Then Kaz said, “Guys, we just blasted the fuck off.” I remembered that I had smoked DMT, and came most of the way back to reality. The rest of the five or ten minutes of the experience was just normal visuals and feelings that come from an average dose of LSD.

The accompanying feeling was one of intensity, to put it mildly. I was in the dark grey starry place, which kind of felt like space, and things were rushing past me I guess, and just sort of happening to me all at once. My skull felt like it was being crushed by everything I was experiencing. I was still saying ‘Oh God’ at this point I guess. I remember thinking from what I had read that it would all be over in a hour, and the thought of ‘20 minutes’ crept in relating to the bulk of the experience, but I couldn’t be sure what that meant or if it was true. ‘20 minutes’ was also too complicated to process so I disregarded it. The thought of it being ‘only an hour’ didn’t comfort me, because I had no idea what an hour was anymore. It didn’t really exist where I was.

Eventually the starry darkness which was my world started to fade. The last thing I saw was the image of space, or whatever, with a dark figure slightly left of the centre of my vision. I knew the man, or man-type-thing, wasn’t good, but it wasn’t bothering me or talking to me, and I was leaving it. I realized I was now sitting up and looking straight ahead to the end of the room, into the en-suite bathroom. I was also rubbing my face and sweating a lot. At this point I could see both the bathroom and the starry scene simultaneously. I was still feeling intensely... anxious isn’t quite the word, but close enough. Seeing the bathroom had brought me home to some extent, but I was still completely unaware of Dan’s presence or anything but what I had just experienced and was still sort of experiencing. I also came to some detached realisation that the dark figure I saw had been the devil. Looking back on it though, I don’t think this is entirely appropriate. The figure was bad, but it wasn’t completely radiating evil. Perhaps it had been in those moments I can’t remember, though.